Recommendations on training
1.
This satisﬁes the “solve or address general workplace problems” basic 
competency, and with at least 3 hours of training.
2.
As per TESDA Training Regulations on BHS NCII, the following are the 
expected learning outcomes from this competency training:
a.
Identify routine problems
b.
Look for solutions to routine problems
c.
Recommend solutions for the problems
3.
Introduce the Five Why’s tool in problem analysis. Some of the sample cases 
that can be used in the discussion are the following:
a.
Bakit namatay ang isang batang nagtatae? (already provided in the 
manual)
b.
Bakit na-stroke ang isang kapitbahay?
c.
Bakit hindi nagpapa-prenatal check up ang isang nanay?
d.
Bakit namatay ang isang buntis?
4.
The topic on social determinants of health in the common competency 
section of the BHW Manual may also be discussed. Identifying social 
determinants of health is not only a skill under the “solving/addressing 
general workplace problems” basic competency, but also considered an 
important competency in performing the health promotion task of BHWs.
5.
Based on the sample case discussed, proceed to the analysis of the problem 
based on the criteria of magnitude, seriousness, feasibility, urgency. Score 
each of the problems identiﬁed from 1-5  on these criteria, with 1 as the lowest 
and 5 as the highest, and get the sum of scores for each problem.
a.
Ideally, the problem with the highest scores must be prioritized.
b.
Discuss with the BHWs if they agree with the results of the exercise.
6.
Based on the identiﬁed priority problems, identify activities that the BHWs 
and the community should do, considering the resources available to them.
7.
To practice identifying social determinants of health, BHWs may be asked to 
read the “Kwento ni Rosario” and ask them to identify the causes of Rosario’s 
death, with emphasis on identifying the social determinants. For more 
discussions on social determinants of health, go to section on social 
determinants under the core competency.
PAGKILALA SA MGA PROBLEMA AT PAGPAPLANO NG 
MGA SOLUSYON
22
